I’m telling you this because you are my only hope. If you had gone to America instead of staying at home, what worries me would still remain. You shouldn’t have let your parents down so badly. You shouldn’t have let them down because of me. If you had just gone to them straight away, things wouldn’t have been so unpleasant for them, and they wouldn’t have been so woeful for you. But because you didn’t, because you shied away from the scene—because you wanted to protect yourself, because you wanted to avoid responsibility—your parents were left extremely helpless. And that, my dear, is the most horrible aspect of all. You were robbed of your soul. Your soul was robbed of its body and put to death. Your body was thrown into a river, and your blood was supposed to wash up on a sunny morning on a beach. My dear, that’s the way the world is. That’s America. That’s how we treat the living.
 
There is a difference then, between seeing human nature and seeing its natural state. And in the human being I see a monster. A beast which has been cheated of its due and which will bleed to death from the shame which its betrayal brings to its miserable existence. A creature which, if it could rise up and breathe, would lie dead in its cage.  It is a creature which, had it the means, could elevate its head and speak as high as the skies, but which, in order to breathe, must first have been gagged shut with his own ligature.

For this very reason, of course, I can't help but feel a certain nostalgia for the days when, up to this point, I had not occupied myself too seriously with the human condition. What's more, when I think about it, there's no alternative but to conclude that success in the world of men is probably not really a virtue at all.
 
Nowadays, as we have come to appreciate the beauty of human nature so much more closely, we can come to appreciate even more its cruel absurdity

As I have heretofore remarked, it is impossible to fully appreciate the value one places on one's human relationships until one actually possesses them. And, in order to fully appreciate the value of these relationships, one has to possess them as if they were one's own flesh and blood.

Once one has become used to the fact that men are not angels, and that their backdoors can be opened only with the greatest exertion and with the greatest dignity, one begins to see that all their elaborate plans, all their grand visions, all their lofty aspirations, all their tedious work, their ridiculous meetings
